
references/01.txt
The former FTX cryptocurrency mogul Sam Bankman-Fried was sentenced to 25 years in prison today for what prosecutors said was one of the biggest financial crimes in US history. A judge handed down that sentence after a jury this fall found Bankman-Fried guilty of seven different counts relating to fraud and money laundering. Bankman-Fried was found to have stolen at least $8 billion from FTX customers. He was also ordered to pay $11 billion today. Bankman-Fried has said he will appeal. For a closer look at this case, we’re joined by David Yaffe-Bellany. He’s covered this saga for years for The New York Times. David, thank you so much for being here. You were in the courtroom today when that sentence was handed down. I wonder what stood out to you the most from the judge’s sentence? I think what I was struck by the most was some of the language that the judge used to justify the length of the sentence. He didn’t just say these were really serious crimes. He said that Sam Bankman-Fried had to go to prison for 25 years because if he was let out any earlier, he might commit more crimes. Basically, there’s this sense that he hasn’t really expressed remorse for what happened and were he to get out, he might pitch a new company and try to commit a similar fraud to the one that brought down FTX. Is this because all along Bankman-Fried really hasn’t expressed a great deal of remorse about this, which I know judges love to see? Yeah. I mean, it’s complicated. He’ll say that he’s sorry about what happened and that he’s apologized to customers, he’s apologized to employees of FTX. But he obviously challenged the charges against him. He’s planning to appeal. So he hasn’t apologized for committing crimes because it remains his position that he hasn’t committed any crimes, but that certainly hurt him at the sentencing stage. For people who have not been following this as closely as you have, can you just remind us of the basic sort of flow of what happened here? How did FTX come crumbling down? Sure. So just 18 months ago, Sam Bankman-Fried was a huge star in the business world. He ran a cryptocurrency exchange, FTX, which was basically a platform where you could take your dollars and spend them to buy Bitcoin or Ether or other cryptocurrencies. And you could also store your crypto on the platform, so it kind of operated as a bank as well. It became really popular as the crypto industry grew and grew. And then in November 2022, there was essentially a run on the bank, and that exposed a big $8 billion dollar hole in the money that FTX was supposed to be holding on behalf of its customers. And that kickstarted the series of events that brought the whole edifice crashing down. And so those people who had “banked” their money in his exchanges, they lost all the money. Those are the victims in this case? Those are one subset of the victims. They’re probably the largest subset. But the other victims include venture capital investors who put in more than a billion dollars into FTX, and also lenders who gave money to companies in Bankman-Fried’s empire. So the $11 billion that he’s been ordered to pay, where is that supposed to go? That’s actually going to the US government. That’s not restitution that’s going to victims. But really, that number is kind of academic because Bankman-Fried does not have $11 billion sitting around that he can just disperse to people. And really, the root for recoveries for the customers of FTX is through the bankruptcy process. So you’ve got a team of lawyers that took over the exchange after it collapsed and have spent the last almost year and a half cobbling together assets wherever they can find them to try to create a pool of funds that can be returned to the people who lost their money. But so far, those people have not yet been made whole. But that is the hope and/or expectation? That’s the hope, and the bankruptcy lawyers have said they’re expecting to make customers whole, but what being made whole means is complicated. They will receive the dollar value of their holdings on the FTX platform as of November 2022 when the bankruptcy happened. So that doesn’t account for the rapid surge in cryptocurrency prices over that period. So if you had one Bitcoin on FTX and it was worth $20,000 in November, you’ll get $20,000 back even though that Bitcoin would be worth $70,000 today. I see. Many people have seen this case as an overarching stain on cryptocurrency writ large. And I wonder, do you think that that’s fair and is that actually what is happening? Does this say anything about cryptocurrency itself or is this just about one person’s potential crime here? I think there are specific characteristics of the crypto industry that helped enable this fraud. One sort of mechanism that Bankman-Fried was using to cover up some of his crimes was that he was inventing new currencies, new digital currencies, and then putting them up as collateral to borrow actual money from lenders. And so that’s a unique aspect of this kind of strange world of digital money that helped enable the fraud. I think it’s also the case that the crypto world has attracted a type of person who’s sort of inclined toward gambling, who wants to take lots of risks, and that says a lot about the culture of the industry and it’s part of what laid the foundation for this massive disaster. All right. David Yaffe-Bellany of The New York Times, thank you so much. Thanks for having me.
references/02.txt
Welcome to the NewsHour. There is an escalation of tension in the Middle East tonight beginning in Damascus, Syria. Earlier today, warplanes attacked a building inside Iran’s consulate complex there and killed some of the most senior members of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps. And tonight there are reports of new attacks on international ships in the Red Sea and a base in Southern Israel. Nick Schifrin, who’s here now, has been following all of this. So Nick, let’s begin with Damascus. What do we know about what happened there this morning? An official with knowledge of the operation tells me that Israel attacked inside Damascus, killing three senior Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps commanders, including Brigadier General Mohammad Reza Zahedi. That is Zahedi there. This is the most significant strike against the IRGC since the US killed Quds Force Commander Qasem Soleimani. You can actually see Soleimani there on the left in the suit, and this photo shows a lot, and this photo as well. Zahedi was extremely important to Iran’s efforts in both Syria and Lebanon. That is actually Qasem Soleimani’s successor right there. Zahedi was the point man with Iran-backed Hezbollah, who oversaw financing in both Syria and Lebanon as well as shipments of Iranian weapons into Syria and Lebanon. Also killed was Zahedi’s Deputy Mohammad Hadi Haji Rahimi. So you see him there, Haji Rahimi there. Essentially what happened today is the decapitation of IRGC leadership in Syria and Lebanon. And it wasn’t only the targets, Amna, it was also the location. You see that there, inside Iran’s consulate in Damascus. That is the first time that Iranian sovereign territory inside Syria has been struck apparently by Israel. Now, I should say the official with knowledge of the operation told me that that was not a diplomatic building, but nonetheless a very significant strike against Iran’s longtime efforts in Lebanon and Syria. Yeah, because you know better than most, there’s always the concern about rising tensions, escalating violence here. Has there been any kind of response yet? By Iran, absolutely. As you’ve suggested at the top, there has been confirmation by Israel of an attack in Southern Israel, in Eilat, on a naval base there, believed, an Israeli official tells me, believed from Yemen, from Houthis in Yemen. And we are also tracking reports both of a Houthi attack on international ships off the coast of Yemen. That would be the first time in a few days. And a possible strike on Al-Tanf. That is the US base in Syria that has not been attacked since February. Meanwhile, we know senior US and Israeli officials also met today about Israel’s plans for a potential operation in Rafah in Gaza. What do we know? Yeah. So President Biden’s senior national security aids and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s senior national security aids met virtually today to talk about this operation in Rafah. The US does not want a major Israeli operation into Rafah, where some 1.4 million Gazans have fled, but where Hamas’s final four battalions are amongst that population in Rafah. Israel says, “There’s no way to win the war without defeating those battalions,” but what the US wants is a much more targeted operation. Both sides saying tonight they have the same objective, but the US side expressed its concerned and the Israeli side agreed to take those concerns. Nick Schifrin with the very latest. Nick, thank you very much. Thank you.
references/03.txt
Tributes are pouring in this morning for a Hollywood Legend Academy Award winner, Louis Gossett Jr. broke down barriers and paved the way for those who would follow him. And ABC’s Will Ganss is here with a look back at an illustrious career and life. Good morning. Will. Good morning. Gio. Louis Gossett Jr. was 6’4″, and at one point he received an invitation from the New York Knicks to come to training camp in his native Brooklyn. But of course, he would find the spotlight and so much acclaim not on the basketball court, but on stage and on screen. You ready to quit now, Mayo? His was a career that wouldn’t quit spanning 70 years. The women at this table have lost their mind. Louis Gossett Jr., a pioneer in theater, film, and television, dead at the age of 87, his cousin telling the AP, “Never mind the awards. Never mind the glitz and glamour. It’s about the humanity of the people that he stood for.” Gossett, bringing that heartbreaking humanity to his character Fiddler in 1977’s groundbreaking miniseries Roots. What it like to be free African? What it like? Must be something special. At 6’4″ tall, Gossett’s first love was basketball, but a high school English teacher introduced him to theater. And in 1953, he made his Broadway debut at age 17. In the late ’50s, he starred in the original Broadway production of A Raisin in the Sun, a role he would reprise in the 1961 film version with Sidney Poitier. You know, man, you are all whacked up with bitterness. How about you? He would appear on TV shows with Ed Sullivan, Jack Parr, and Merv Griffin, becoming friendly with James Dean and studying acting alongside Marilyn Monroe. Went to his room and lined up a hundred. But it was his work in An Officer and a Gentleman in 1983 that made history. Won’t ever forget you, Sergeant. I know. Gossett becoming the first Black man to win the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. Thank you. Gossett continuing acting, earning Emmy nominations for his work in Watchmen in his eighties, and appearing in the new movie adaptation of The Color Purple this winter. Gossett said he hopes his legacy will be the humanity he brought to each role he played, not defined by the color of his skin. How would you like to be remembered? To be remembered as Louis Gossett Jr., who could be Superman, too. Louie Gossett Jr. was 87 years old, and Coleman Domingo, who played his son in The Color Purple posting on Instagram, “We lost a true legend. He ran his race for us. We are forever indebted. May we stand firmly on his shoulder.” You guys? Oh, it’s about the humanity. Yes. I just love that. And a career spanning seven decades? It’s incredible. It’s unbelievable. It’s absolutely incredible. Yeah. And left it so much better for everybody who came after him, too. Yeah. A hundred percent. A legacy. A hundred percent.
references/04.txt
 In our first unified joint command news briefing at the Key Bridge I-695 in Baltimore, Maryland, I am going to introduce to you our Maryland Secretary of Transportation, Paul Wiedefeld. It’s spelled P-A-U-L, Wiedefeld, W-I-E-D-E-F-E-L-D. Thank you.  Thank you. Good morning. At approximately 1:30 AM, a cargo ship, leaving the port of Baltimore, struck the Francis Scott Key Bridge. This caused the catastrophic collapse of the bridge. First responders from the Maryland Transportation Authority, the Toll Authority and our federal, state, local partners immediately responded to the scene. At this time, this is an active search and rescue mission. We know there were individuals on the bridge, at the time of the collapse, working on the bridge; contractors for us. Our partners from the US Coast Guard will provide some more information momentarily. In terms of traffic, drivers should avoid I-695 Southeast Corridor and use I-95 and I-895 as alternatives. I-695 is being detoured southbound at Exit 43, the Peninsula Expressway, and northbound at Exit 2, Route 10.  Vessel traffic into and out of the port of Baltimore is suspended until further notice, but the port is still open for truck transactions. Obviously, we’re very thankful for the first responders who are carrying out their efforts in these rescues and that they’re doing this all through the night and today. And we’re praying, obviously, for everyone’s safe return. We’ll continue to provide updates to you. The next one being approximately 9:30. With that, I will turn over to Lieutenant Colonel Palmer from the US Coast Guard.  Good morning. My name is Lieutenant Commander Erin Palmer from Coast Guard Sector Maryland-National Capital Region. I’m the current acting chief of response for the sector. The Coast Guard’s primary mission right now is search and rescue, looking for any survivors in the water. On scene, we currently have three small boats. We also have Coast Guard Cutter Mako, an 87-foot patrol boat. We have a helicopter from Air Station Atlantic City and we’re working with numerous federal, state, and local partners on scene on these search and rescue efforts. Thank you.  We’re going to take any questions you have at this time.  What role is the FBI playing in the investigation at this time?  The FBI has, basically, to see if there was any terrorism connection, which there is not.  Any confirmed number of deaths?  How many dead people are you looking for?  No confirmed fatalities.  Any recovered from the water alive?  They’re still on it, the rescue mission is still active.  Do you have any sense of what happened to the actual cargo ship? There was some reports that it suffered some major power outages just before it crashed into the bridge.  Too early in the investigation.    Was a pilot operating the ship coming in and out of the port? Was it a port’s authorized pilot or was it the captain of the ship?  The pilots move ships in and out of the port of Baltimore.  Say that again.  Pilots move ships in and out of Baltimore.  What’s happening to all the other ships that are waiting, the backup at this point? How are you navigating that?  Basically we’re communicating with them. They obviously understand the situation and we’ll deal with the logistics of that later.  Has the crew been evacuated from the ship and has the Coast Guard been able to make contact with the pilot on the ship?  That’s all being done right now. I don’t know the exact details of where they all are, but yes, obviously we’re contacting them.  With the FBI involved is this being investigated as suspicious?  In any type of incident like this the FBI would be engaged just to make sure and that’s what they did.  Do you have any idea how many vehicles are in the water?  Can you just, any idea how could this happen? This bridge should not have collapsed like this.  Too early in the investigation.  Paul, could you just   How long will the port be closed?  Do you know how deep the water is there and sort of this area where it happened, the conditions?  Approximately 50 feet.  Yeah, that’s correct.  50 feet.  How many people are you looking for right now?  on how many people were rescued? How many were pulled from the water? How many are you still searching for?  That is what we’re doing. We’re basically searching for everyone that was potentially on the bridge. As you can imagine, it’s the middle of the night. What type of traffic was there? How many workers were there? Workers, they obviously come to a project, but other workers show up sometimes, so that’s what we’re investigating right now.  Is this unprecedented? Has anything like this ever happened?  Not in Baltimore.  Sir. Can you talk more about the workers on the bridge, what was going on and how many vehicles you think might actually be in the water?  They were basically doing some concrete deck repair. We don’t have the number of the vehicles.  Do we know who they work for?  I don’t have that right off-hand.  How long will the port be closed? Any estimate?  Too early to determine.  Are you still looking for seven people?  A number of people. That’s the one number that we’ve had, but obviously we’re researching to see if anyone else was on that bridge.  Can you speak to some of the challenges? The freezing water, the current, the darkness this morning as you were searching for individuals?  All of the above, to be frank. It’s a very, very tough situation. [inaudible 00:05:13] at 1:00 AM in the morning, very little information at that time. It happened instantaneously as you’ve seen.  Sir, it’s been a number of hours. At this point, what can you tell family members who might be watching about any hope that you will still recover survivors?  We actually have set up a facility for any family members. We have mental health professionals there as well, so we’re dealing with that.  And are you ruling out any kind of intentional motive [inaudible 00:05:40]?  We don’t see anything that relates to that at this time. It’s an open investigation, but there’s nothing that points to that in any direction. first calls after the incident come in directly from the ship, when the ship hit there. Who were the first ones to make the 911 calls to kind of alert you?  I don’t know. I don’t have that information. Do you have any indication whether the ship lost power? It’s too early.  And just for clarification-  I’m sorry…  Last question please.  The port is closed except for trucks moving transport out.  Right, right.  Okay.  Okay. And we’ll be back shortly about 9:30. I’m sorry.  This bridge was built in the 1970s, took about five years to construct it. Right. Any idea what we can expect forward?  Too early. Obviously we reached out to a number of engineering companies and so obviously we have a long road in front of us to get to that point. Okay, thank you so much.  Thank you.  Can you tell…
references/05.txt
Nearly 21 years ago, Hong Kong lawmakers attempted to pass a national security law that set off mass protests. More than half a million people turned out for a march on July 1st, 2003 to oppose the legislation. The mass protests forced lawmakers to table the bill, locally known as Article 23. But on Tuesday, Hong Kong approved a new national security bill that grants even more powers to authorities to crack down on any opposition to China and the Beijing-backed local government. The law targets treason, espionage, external interference, state secrets, and sedition. To help us understand this, we’re joined by John Tai. He is a senior advisor at Pamir Consulting, which gives risk analysis and strategic advice focused on China. He’s also an adjunct professor at the Elliott School of International Affairs at the George Washington University. Thank you for joining us. This is now the second such law since 2021. Authorities cracked down on months of pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong. What does this tell us about the state of freedom and government in Hong Kong?  Well, I think they’re very clear. The state of freedom is being curtailed. The law is very much patterned after Chinese laws that you see on the mainland. The law that you refer to back in 2020 was essentially a Chinese law. But at the end of the day, China, Beijing, expects Hong Kong under the basic law of 1997 to enact a full law dealing with national security. And that’s what exactly this is. And the Article 23 is referring exactly to the Article 23 of the basic law of 1997 that basically requires the Hong Kong government to do this thing after Hong Kong was transitioned to the people’s Republic of China.  Help us understand how much the political scene in Hong Kong has changed since those anti-government protests five years ago and back in the early 2000s.  Well, I think one of the things that a lot of people would say is that Hong Kong is definitely becoming more and more under Chinese influence. It really is more and more so a Chinese territory. So a lot of the things that people are accustomed to back in the days of Hong Kong in the 1990s under British rule, a lot of these things are different. So in many ways, the political landscape in a nutshell, if you say there’s any change, is that Hong Kong is more and more so a Chinese territory.  And in mainland China, national security laws have often trapped both local and foreign businesses in investigations that are not transparent at all. For example, the staff from Bain & Company, an American consulting firm, they were questioned in their Shanghai office last April without any details of what investigators were looking for. So then given that and what has just passed in Hong Kong, what are the implications for businesses in Hong Kong?  Yeah, so I think you pointed right exactly where the challenge is and what the concern is, is that this law Hong Kong is reflected with the fact that Hong Kong, in many ways, the entire overall legal environment is very much like one similar on mainland China, in which you have a very vague definition of what state secrets are. You have very expansive, their categorization of different problems or acts that may impact and endanger national security. And what does that mean for foreign businesses, of course, is that they’re going to be dealing in Hong Kong. They’re going to be dealing with similar situations that they’re dealing with on the mainland already.  If Hong Kong and China are getting closer to being considered the same thing, what still distinguishes Hong Kong from mainland China, particularly for those people who remember it, as you say, under British rule? What distinguishes life there now?  Well, so I want to emphasize that Beijing’s idea is to turn Hong Kong more and more closer to China, more under Chinese influence. And I think one of the concerns for everyone is, is it possible to ensure that Hong Kong does not go down that route? Hong Kong right now, and you actually can see it in the way that many of Hong Kong residents have tried to leave Hong Kong. So there are many things in the overall environment that makes a lot of the Hong Kongers feel that this is not the Hong Kong that they used to live in.  John Tai, Adjunct Professor, Professor at the George Washington University. Thank you so much for joining us.
references/06.txt
Ariel Henry resigned his post as Haitian Prime Minister on Monday. He steps down amid a surge of gang violence in the Caribbean nation, which has killed thousands and displaced hundreds of thousands more since 2021. According to estimates by the UN, Henry tendered his resignation at a conference of Caribbean community states held in nearby Jamaica. The unelected 74-year-old neurosurgeon has held his rule since the 2021 assassination of Haiti’s last president. Late last month, he traveled to Kenya to secure its leadership of a United Nations-backed international security mission to help Haitian police fight gangs. However, a drastic escalation of violence in the capital, Port-au-Prince, while he was gone left him stranded in the US territory of Puerto Rico and prompted Washington to airlift staff from its embassy in Haiti on Sunday. Regional leaders gathered in Jamaica the next day to discuss the framework for a political transition in Haiti. While gangs had been calling for Henry to step down, many Haitians consider Henry to be corrupt. He has repeatedly postponed elections, saying security must first be restored. A political crisis, escalating violence, unrest. This has created an untenable situation for the Haitian people. Before Henry resigned Monday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called for the creation of a council to be tasked with meeting “the immediate needs of Haitians,” enabling the security mission’s deployment, and paving the way for free elections. Blinken said Washington would also contribute $33 million in humanitarian aid and an additional $100 million in funding for the UN-backed force, bringing the total US contribution to the security mission to $300 million. A senior US official told Reuters, Henry was free to remain in Puerto Rico and that the situation in Haiti would have to improve for him to feel comfortable to return.
references/07.txt
Close your eyes. Now, feel. You’re so beautiful. I know. I was just thinking that. I haven’t eaten in three weeks. I’m so hungry. I have to go host the Oscars. Live from the Dolby Theater at Ovation, Hollywood. Please welcome tonight’s host, Jimmy Kimmel. Well, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, everybody. Well, it’s very kind. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for that partial standing ovation and welcome to the 96th Oscars, everybody. Look at these beautiful human actors. What an honor it is to be here. Thank you for having me back and congratulations to each and every one of you for making it to the Academy Awards and for making it on time. The show, as you know, is starting an hour early this year, but don’t worry, it will still end very, very late. In fact, we’re already five minutes over, and I am not joking. I’m not going to lie, it’s going to be a long night after what was a long year. It was a hard year, but it was also a great year for movies. Despite the fact that everything stopped, the people in this room somehow managed to come up with so many excellent films and so many memorable performances. This night is full of enormous talent and untold potential. But so was Madame Web. So, who knows? Are we off to a bumpy start? Okay. This is a meaningful occasion for most of you. I know that. And I know that winning an Oscar is something you dreamed about since you were a kid. And now here we are, all dressed up, celebrating the best of the best, beginning with the biggest movie of the year, Barbie. Barbie was a monster hit. What a thing. What an achievement to take a plastic doll nobody even liked anymore … I mean, my wife, before this movie, you’d have had a better chance of getting my wife to buy our daughter a pack of Marlboro Reds than a Barbie doll. Now, Barbie’s a feminist icon thanks to Greta Gerwig, who many believe deserve to be nominated for best director. Hold on a second. I know you’re clapping, but you’re the ones who didn’t vote for her, by the way. Don’t act like you had nothing to do with this. And I don’t want to leave out Margot Robbie. Margot put this giant hit together. She did. Margot Robbie and Ryan Gosling are here tonight. Look, kids, it’s Barbie and Ken sitting just near each other. Ryan and Margot, I want you to know that even if neither one of you wins an Oscar tonight, you both already won something much more important, the genetic lottery. Ryan, you are so hot. Let’s go camping together and not tell our wives. And then we have the other major box office winner this year, Oppenheimer directed by the great Christopher Nolan, also a very attractive man. And this is a fascinating person. Christopher Nolan doesn’t have a smartphone, he doesn’t use email, and he writes his scripts on a computer with no internet connection, which is a powerful way of saying, “I will not allow my porn addiction to get in the way of my work.” Christopher is joined by his longtime collaborator, Cillian Murphy, who is just wonderful. Cillian, interesting fact about his name it’s pronounced Cillian when he does drama, when he does comedy it’s Silly-Ann. And congratulations to Silly Ann’s co-star Robert Downey Jr. This is the highest point of Robert Downey Jr.’s long and illustrious career. Well, one of the highest points, but Robert has been a … Was it too on the nose or is that a drug motion you made? Well, look at him. I mean, look at this guy. He is so handsome, so talented. He’s won every award there is to win. Is that an acceptance speech in your pocket or do you just have a very rectangular penis? What a story. Not even 20 years ago, things weren’t going that great for Robert. He played the villain, and correct me if I have this wrong, in a movie where Tim Allen turns into a dog, right? And if you ever decide to remake that film, I have just the guy to play Tim Allen. That is … Where is he? Messi, who even though he is a dog, may have given the performance of the year in Anatomy of a Fall. Messi has an overdose scene. If you’ve seen it, you know it is incredible. Honestly, I haven’t seen a French actor eat vomit like that since Gerard Depardieu. The second most nominated movie of the year is Poor Things directed by Yorgos Lanthimos. There he is. Not only is Yorgos nominated for best director, his editor, whose name is also Yorgos, Yorgos Mavropsaridis, is nominated too. We have two Yorgoses in the house tonight. Will they both win? Yorgos is as good as mine. All right, let’s get 20 seconds for room tone. Emma Stone is an Oscar nominee for a fifth time, right? The fifth time. Emma, you’re so unbelievably great in Poor Things. Emma played an adult woman with the brain of a child, like the lady who gave the rebuttal to the State of the Union on Thursday night. And you were just amazing. There were so many great movies that held audiences captive this year, and I mean that literally, your movies were too long this year. The average length of the top 10 movies was two hours and 23 minutes. That’s up 30 minutes from three years ago. When I went to see Killers of the Flower Moon, I had my mail forwarded to the theater. Killers of the Flower Moon is so long, in the time it takes you to watch it you could drive to Oklahoma and solve the murders yourself. The multi-talented Bradley Cooper is here with us tonight. He’s got another best picture nominee with Maestro. Bradley, you brought your mom to the show tonight. Hi, Mrs. Cooper. How are you? You’re doing good? Great. Bradley brings his mother to every award show, right? She was his date last year at the Oscars. Not last year. Not … Okay. And the Tonys and the Soul Train Awards, et cetera. It’s very sweet. But I guess the question is, how many times can one bring his mom as his date before he is actually dating his mom? Are you working on a movie about Freud right now and not telling us? Here’s some fun Oscar trivia. 48 years ago, Robert De Niro and Jodie Foster were nominated for Taxi Driver, and they are both nominated again tonight. 1976 was the year. That’s pretty crazy. In 1976, Jodie Foster was young enough to be Robert De Niro’s daughter. Now she’s 20 years too old to be his girlfriend. I also want to congratulate Robert’s co-star Lily Gladstone, who is the first Native American ever to be nominated for best actress for Killers of the Flower Moon. And if you saw it, you know that it was riveting. And did you know that before she got this movie, Lily was ready to quit acting and take a job at the Department of Agriculture tracking murder hornets, right? Yeah. And now she’s nominated for an Oscar, which is so great for her, but also, it makes me worried that no one’s tracking these murder hornets. Lily is in excellent company. We have many first-time acting nominees tonight, including Emily Blunt, Jeffrey Wright, Sterling K. Brown, America Ferrera, America, Danielle Brooks, Coleman Domingo, Da’Vine Joy Randolph, and Sandra Huller. For the first time ever, three foreign language films are up for best picture and two of them star Sandra Huller, which is … Two movies. Sandra plays a woman on trial for murdering her husband in Anatomy of a Fall, and a Nazi housewife living next to Auschwitz in the zone of interest. And while these are very heavy subjects for American moviegoers, in Sandra’s native Germany, they’re called rom-coms. For the first time in more than two decades, we’re adding a new category to the Oscars. Not tonight. Don’t worry. In the future, they’ll be adding an Oscar for Achievement and Casting, which yeah, you better applaud for that. And that is great news for actors because now not only will you be able to watch someone else win an Oscar for a part you didn’t get, you’ll also be able to watch the person who didn’t think you were right for it win one too. What a year we’ve had. It was a tough year. Remember that kid from The Fablemans? This is what he looks like now. Very good to have you here, Stephen. Stephen, are you nominated tonight or are you here because you have season tickets? Stephen and his wife, Kate Capshaw, donated a lot of money to help actors and writers who were out of work over the summer. We were on strike for a long time, for 148 days. For five months this group of writers, actors, directors, the people who actually make the film said, “We will not accept a deal.” Well, not the directors, you guys folded immediately, but the rest of us said, “We will not accept a deal without protections against artificial intelligence.” And as a result, actors no longer have to worry about getting replaced by AI. Thanks to this historic agreement, actors are now able to go back to worrying about being replaced by younger, more attractive people. And I think that’s great. And writers, could AI have written Transformers: Rise of the Beasts? Yes. The answer is yes. We learned a lot while we were out on those picket lines. The strike raised existential questions about our industry. Like if a movie premieres at the Grove and there are no actors there to promote it, does Mario Lopez make a sound? And now that the strike is over, now that Fran Drescher has returned to her volunteer work, reading loudly to the hearing impaired, we can be proud of the fact that this long and difficult work stoppage taught us that this very strange town of ours, as pretentious and superficial as it can be, at its heart is a union town. It’s not just a bunch of heavily Botoxed, Haley Bieber smoothie drinking, diabetes prescription abusing, gluten-sensitive nepo babies with perpetually shivering chihuahuas. This is a coalition of strong, hardworking, mentally tough American laborers, women and men who would 100% for sure die if we even had to touch the handle of a shovel. But the reason we were able to make a deal is because of the people who rallied beside us. So, before we celebrate ourselves, let’s have a very well-deserved round of applause for the people who work behind the scenes, the teamsters, the truck drivers, the lighting crews, sound, camera, gaffers, grips. That’s right. All the people who refused to cross the picket lines. There they are. If you’re wearing Skechers to the Oscars, take a bow. Come on guys. Take a bow. Take a bow. You deserve a thank you for standing with us. And also, we want you to know that in your upcoming negotiation, we will stand with you too. And also, I’m going to make sure this show goes really long tonight, so you get a ton of overtime. It’s golden time, everybody. Should we give out some Oscars? All right. We have surprises planned for each of the acting categories tonight. Five surprises, in fact. And we’re going to kick it off with the Oscar for actress in a supporting role.
references/08.txt
Welcome to the NewsHour. The US Supreme Court ruled unanimously today that the 14th Amendment does not allow individual states to remove former President Donald Trump from their ballots. In an unsigned opinion, the court said only that Congress, not states, can disqualify presidential candidates under the Constitution’s so-called Insurrection Clause. The former president celebrated the decision. Essentially, you cannot take somebody out of a race because an opponent would like to have it that way and it has nothing to do with the fact that it’s the leading candidate. Whether it was the leading candidate or a candidate that was well down on the totem pole, you cannot take somebody out of a race. And William Brangham joins us now. So William, the court was unequivocal, states do not have the power to remove federal candidates from the ballot under the Insurrection Clause. Help us understand how the justices arrived at this ruling. Remember Jeff, this came out of a group of Republican voters in Colorado saying that January 6th to their mind was clearly an insurrection, and that Donald Trump was the cheerleader of that insurrection. And they cited this Section 3 of the 14th Amendment, which is, as you mentioned, the Insurrection Clause. And it argues that if you’ve sworn an oath to uphold the Constitution and then you engage in an insurrection after the fact, you can’t hold office again. And so, they appealed that all the way to the Colorado State Supreme Court and they won and Donald Trump was ruled that he has to be taken off the Republican primary ballot. The Supreme Court is, they overturned that today. And they basically said you cannot have a system where a lot of different states are making this decision because it would simply be a sort of ad hoc state-by-state basis. In their ruling, they said, “For the reasons given, responsibility for enforcing Section 3 against federal officeholders and candidates rests with Congress and not the states. The judgment of the Colorado Supreme Court therefore cannot stand.” It said states can choose to withhold and withdraw state candidates, not federal candidates. So tomorrow is Super Tuesday. Colorado is one of the many states holding a primary tomorrow, but the impact of this decision sweeps far beyond Colorado. Isn’t that right? That’s exactly right. Trump will be on the ballot in Colorado. They printed the ballots already and thought, okay, if the ruling comes in the other direction, those votes just won’t get counted. That doesn’t matter now. As you mentioned, there are over 30 states that were examining some kind of a challenge on 14th Amendment grounds to pull Donald Trump off their ballots. All of those go away now. Trump will be on the ballot in all the states. How did the court deal with the specific question of whether Donald Trump is an insurrectionist? They didn’t. They didn’t bring it up in the hearing last month. They didn’t bring it up in this ruling. There was some disagreement in the ruling today as to who gets to make that decision and when they make the decision. The four female justices, it was interesting how it split on gender lines here. All four female justices said that the ruling that states shouldn’t be able to make this decision should have stood. But Kagan, Sotomayor, and Justice Jackson all took issue with the further breadth of this ruling, which they argue made it much harder to actually enforce Section 3 saying that Congress has to write a particular statute in order to enforce a part of the Constitution. It’s very unusual. These three justices wrote that the other justices crafted this ruling to insulate themselves and Donald Trump. I’m going to read a little bit of what they said. They wrote, “The majority announces novel rules for how that enforcement must operate. It reaches out to decide Section 3 questions not before us, and to foreclose future efforts to disqualify a presidential candidate under that provision. In a sensitive case, crying out for judicial restraint, it abandons that course.” They are clearly not happy with this. Something to remember when we see all these headlines that this was a unanimous ruling. And separately, William, Allen Weisselberg, who is one of Donald Trump’s longest-serving associates, he pleaded guilty today to perjury. Bring us up to speed on that case. That’s right. Weisselberg was, for almost 50 years, Donald Trump’s chief financial guy. He got his start as Fred Trump’s, Donald Trump’s father’s bookkeeper. He admitted that he lied under oath, he lied to investigators and on the stand as part of this big sweeping civil fraud trial that just socked Donald Trump with nearly half a billion dollars in fines. In that ruling, the civil fraud ruling, the judge in that case ruled that Weisselberg was central to all of the different fraudulent things that Donald Trump got up to, banned him from serving as a financial officer, said he’s got to pay back half the $2 million severance that Donald Trump gave him when he was walking out the door. So now that he’s pled guilty to perjury, he could spend a couple of months in prison, notably in this case and all along and this has been an incredible frustration to prosecutors in this case, Weisselberg has never implicated Donald Trump in any wrongdoing. All right, William Brangham, thank you so much for all of that reporting this evening. We appreciate it. Thanks, Jeff.
references/09.txt
February 29th, today, only comes around once every four years. But why do we have leap years? 13 On Your Side’s Veronica Ortega does the math. 2024 is a leap year, and the question arises, why do we have leap years? Well, the Earth takes one year to revolve around the sun, right? Not exactly. It actually takes 365.2422 days. So when you subtract and find the difference, it’s not zero. We realized we’re behind about 5.8 hours each year. While this is a small number, over decades and centuries, this would have an impact on our calendar. In 100 years, our calendars would be off 24 days. So, for example, instead of the first day of spring being on March 19th, without leap year, it would be on February 23rd, and so on and so forth. To help synchronize the time, the solution that was introduced centuries ago, we add one day every four years. Problem solved, right? Not quite. When you subtract the amount of time it takes for the Earth to complete one revolution around the sun with our solution, you find out we’re still about 11 minutes off each year. Over 100 years, our calendar would be about 18 hours off, which doesn’t sound like a huge problem. But over centuries, this would eventually throw off our calendar. To help bring this number closer to zero, we’ll actually skip leap years to help realign the calendar to the solar year. But the rules are very specific. To help understand this, we can use a leap year hopscotch to solve the problem. You skip a leap year if it falls on the start of a century, unless that year is divisible by 400. So, for example, every four years, we’ll acknowledge the extra day in February, but in the year 2100, we will skip that leap year since, one, it falls on the start of a century and, two, it is not divisible by 400. Back in year 2000, that was a leap year, but since it was divisible by 400, we did not skip it. This is easy to understand, right? With this added solution, the current average is 365.2425, which is a lot closer to the solar year. But, unfortunately, we’re still off by decimals … To be exact, about 26 seconds … ahead each year. At this rate, it would take over 3,000 years to be off by one day, which some would say is close enough. Veronica Ortega, 13 On Your Side.
references/10.txt
I am one and Odysseus lunar lander. Vehicle pitching down range. Stage one propulsion is nominal. Well, this privately owned Nova-C lander is carrying NASA instruments to study precision landing, space weather, and other phenomena on the lunar surface. If touchdown is successful, it will be the first American moon landing in more than 50 years. Well, let’s speak to our science correspondent, Jonathan Amos, who’s joining us from Cardiff. Thank you so much for your time. Now, could you put this into perspective for us because this is going to be potentially historic on different levels. Yeah, we hope so. It’s going to be, if it succeeds, the first American private mission to touch the surface softly ever. And it would also be the first American mission to touch down softly since the Apollo era, in fact, since 1972. So those are the two marks that it’s trying to reach. You’ll recall just a few weeks ago we had another American company called Astrobotic with their Peregrine lander that tried to do the same, and it didn’t get very far at all actually. Just after it left Earth, it ran into difficulties. So far, so good for this new mission. And then we’ll find out next week on the 22nd whether or not they can achieve those two historic firsts. And in terms of the mission itself, what is it trying to accomplish? Well, principally it’s a technology demonstration mission. So it’s looking to develop the precise navigation technologies that will allow a spacecraft to put down not just within a few kilometers of where you’d like to be, but within meters of where you’d like to be. So later this decade, NASA, the US Space Agency has said it wants to put people back on the surface of the moon. It wants to repeat Apollo, but to do it in a more sustainable way. But if we’re going to do that and we’re going to stay on the surface for days at a time, weeks at a time, then we want to be able to put a spacecraft down very precisely indeed. You don’t have to want to walk to or even get in a little buggy and drive some way to go and pick up the supplies that you need. You need them to land very close to you. So those technologies need to be developed in the coming years so that we can do the moon with people again in a better way than we did it 50 years ago. It’s no easy task though, is it? Even this mission here, this wasn’t the first attempt to get a successful liftoff. Yeah, it’s hard to land on the moon. About half of all attempts that have tried have failed. It’s one of those things. There’s no GPS at the moon. You have to use other technologies to see where you are in space, to reckon where the craters are, and to find a very safe place to put down. And then you have to come in with thrusters. There’s no air on the moon. You can’t use parachutes to slow your descent. And so it’s all pinpoint stuff. And your computers have to work very well indeed, otherwise you just smash into the surface. And there are hopes for frozen water. What would that actually represent? Well, if we’re going to go back in a sustainable way and we want to live there for weeks on end, then we want the resources at hand to be able to do that. Now, in the past, the Apollo astronauts took all of their water with them. If there is a resource there that they can mined and we think that there are shadowed places on the lunar south pole where it is permanently dark, there may well be ices that they can drill in to melt, use for drinking, sanitation, but also for rocket fuel as well. So that’s the great goal. And we’ll find out with this stream of robotic missions that are coming up this year and in the following years as to whether that is a good idea or not. All right. Thank you so much for that. And of course that’s one that we are going to keep watching closely.