Tributes are pouring in this morning for a Hollywood Legend Academy Award winner, Louis Gossett Jr. broke down barriers and paved the way for those who would follow him. And ABC’s Will Ganss is here with a look back at an illustrious career and life. Good morning. Will.

Good morning. Gio. Louis Gossett Jr. was 6’4″, and at one point he received an invitation from the New York Knicks to come to training camp in his native Brooklyn. But of course, he would find the spotlight and so much acclaim not on the basketball court, but on stage and on screen.

You ready to quit now, Mayo?

His was a career that wouldn’t quit spanning 70 years.

The women at this table have lost their mind.

Louis Gossett Jr., a pioneer in theater, film, and television, dead at the age of 87, his cousin telling the AP, “Never mind the awards. Never mind the glitz and glamour. It’s about the humanity of the people that he stood for.” Gossett, bringing that heartbreaking humanity to his character Fiddler in 1977’s groundbreaking miniseries Roots.

What it like to be free African? What it like? Must be something special.

At 6’4″ tall, Gossett’s first love was basketball, but a high school English teacher introduced him to theater. And in 1953, he made his Broadway debut at age 17. In the late ’50s, he starred in the original Broadway production of A Raisin in the Sun, a role he would reprise in the 1961 film version with Sidney Poitier.

You know, man, you are all whacked up with bitterness.

How about you?

He would appear on TV shows with Ed Sullivan, Jack Parr, and Merv Griffin, becoming friendly with James Dean and studying acting alongside Marilyn Monroe.

Went to his room and lined up a hundred.

But it was his work in An Officer and a Gentleman in 1983 that made history.

Won’t ever forget you, Sergeant.

I know.

Gossett becoming the first Black man to win the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.

Thank you.

Gossett continuing acting, earning Emmy nominations for his work in Watchmen in his eighties, and appearing in the new movie adaptation of The Color Purple this winter. Gossett said he hopes his legacy will be the humanity he brought to each role he played, not defined by the color of his skin.

How would you like to be remembered?

To be remembered as Louis Gossett Jr., who could be Superman, too.

Louie Gossett Jr. was 87 years old, and Coleman Domingo, who played his son in The Color Purple posting on Instagram, “We lost a true legend. He ran his race for us. We are forever indebted. May we stand firmly on his shoulder.” You guys?

Oh, it’s about the humanity.

Yes.

I just love that.

And a career spanning seven decades?

It’s incredible.

It’s unbelievable.

It’s absolutely incredible.

Yeah.

And left it so much better for everybody who came after him, too.

Yeah.

A hundred percent.

A legacy.

A hundred percent.